New pricing PR (#8802)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/new-pricing.md

export const Pricing = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_ba910c9535.jpg"
export const PricingDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_dark_6b11387d6c.jpg"
export const PricingComparison = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_f0c9e11f40.jpg"
export const PricingComparisonDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_dark_ecf7d726c0.jpg"

## TL;DR

* You can now use PostHog's product and web analytics for up to 80% less, making us cheaper than any popular competitive product.

* This is possible because we've introduced a new event processing option that enables you to capture events without person information. 

* Events _without_ person information cost less for us to ingest and query. We're passing this saving onto you by introducing cheaper base event pricing and a new "Person profiles" add-on.

* Events with person profiles enabled cost the same as our old event pricing. Existing customers will see a new line item labelled "Person profiles" on their invoice. Your price has not gone up.

> * You decide when you do or don't include person information on an event.

Author: We should add an FAQ item for this

## How much cheaper are the new base events?

At lower volumes, our new event pricing is 80% cheaper than before. This makes us better value than any popular (>$10M in revenue) product analytics tool. 

In real terms this means:

> 1. Someone sending us 10 million events a month would **save $9,060 a year** if they disabled person profiles for all events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Someone sending us 10 million events per month would **save $9,060 a year** if they disabled person profiles for all events.
```

> 2. They would still **save $4,404 a year** if they enabled person profiles on 50% of their events.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. They would still **save $4,404 a year** if they used person profiles on 50% of their events.  
```

We expect people to use a combination of events with and without person profiles, which you can see visualized below.

<br />

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={Pricing} 
  imageDark={PricingDark} 
  alt="New PostHog pricing" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

Below you can see how our new pricing compares to Mixpanel's up to 20 million events – the limit of its "transparent" pricing. 

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={PricingComparison} 
  imageDark={PricingComparisonDark} 
  alt="New PostHog pricing compared to Mixpanel" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

The table below is a side-by-side comparison of our new base event pricing, and pricing for events with person profiles enabled.

> Base events and person profiles combined cost the same as our previous per event pricing.

Author: I like this.

| **Monthly events** | **New base event price** | **Base events + person profiles** | **Percentage diff.** |
|--------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------|
| **Up to 1m**       | Free                     | Free                              | -              |
| **1-2m**           | $0.0000500 / event       | $0.0002480 / event                | -80%           |
| **2-15m**          | $0.0000343 / event       | $0.0001040 / event                | -67%           |
| **15-50m**         | $0.0000295 / event       | $0.0000655 / event                | -55%           |
| **50-100m**        | $0.0000218 / event       | $0.0000364 / event                | -40%           |
| **100-250**        | $0.0000150 / event       | $0.0000187 / event                | -20%           |
| **∞**              | $0.0000090 / event       | $0.0000100 / event                | -10%           |

## When should I use the new option?

We use it for events where we're only interested in aggregate data, such as for logged-out users on our website.

> It could also be useful when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some examples of this include:
```

> - You're willing to lose some functionality for lower bills.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You want to track your marketing website and your product, but you don't need detailed information about visitors to your marketing website.
- You're willing to lose some functionality for lower bills.
```

This is one of the primary use-cases and should be mentioned explicitly.

- You want to track API or server events, especially at high volumes. 
- You run a large e-commerce or content website with millions of users.
- You're not tracking a high-volume event because it would be prohibitively expensive.
- You want to use [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) to track events, but have turned it off to save money.

## How do I start using it?

For most people, it only requires a simple config change to include `process_persons: "identified_only"`. 

This will track anonymous traffic without person profiles, and start collecting person information any time an identifying action is taken (i.e. using `identify()`, `group()`, setting person properties with `$set`, etc).

> You can get instructions for this and other use cases in our [persons documentation](/docs/data/persons).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can get more details on this and other use cases, like server-side events, in our [persons documentation](/docs/data/persons).
```

## What's the downside?

When sending events without person information, you cannot:

- Filter on persons (e.g. an individual user)
- Create cohorts filtered on person properties (e.g. paying vs non-paying users)
- Target by person properties for feature flags, A/B tests and surveys.

> - Receive initial UTM values for tracking marketing campaign performance (only the most recent).

Reviewer 2: Isn't there initial session UTM value?

Author: Afaik, no, but it is passed when an unidentified user becomes an identified user – e.g. they visit website and then signup.

- View a person’s profile in the app, or query the persons table in our SQL insights.
- Use [groups functionality](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics) on standard events (without person profiles).

> If you need the above functionality, just continue to send person information with your events (no need to change anything), for events where the specific functionality is needed. 

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the last part of this section.
```suggestion
If you need the above functionality, you don't need to change anything. Continue to send person information with your events.
```

> If you need the above functionality, just continue to send person information with your events (no need to change anything), for events where the specific functionality is needed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need the above functionality for all your traffic, just continue to send person information with your events (no need to change anything), for events where the specific functionality is needed. 
```

> Person profiles are not an all-or-nothing thing. You can use them on any traffic where you need more detailed information, and skip them when you don't need that detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Person profiles are not all-or-nothing. You can use them on any traffic where you need more detailed information, and skip them when you don't need that detail. Read more about this in our [persons documentation](/docs/data/persons).
```

I think we should link implementation instructions again here.

## Why are we doing this?

The short answer? Because we can.

The slightly longer answer? Because it's the right thing to do for both our users and our business.

> Most of our competitors are inefficient. They employ huge outbound sales teams to grow revenue. Their salaries and commissions for closing deals are passed onto their customers through higher prices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Most of our competitors are inefficient. They employ huge [outbound sales teams](/founders/negotiate-software-better) to grow revenue. Their salaries and commissions for closing deals are passed onto their customers through higher prices.
```

> In contrast, we're 100% inbound. We grow mostly through word of mouth, and we charge based on actual usage. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In contrast, we're 100% inbound, we grow mostly through word of mouth, and we charge based on actual usage. 
```

We don't believe in loss-leaders, so we make a modest positive margin on each event sold, but what we charge is directly connected to what it costs us, not what we think we get away with charging.

> We grow our revenue through helping you grow, and onboarding you onto other tools, like session replay, feature flags, and surveys as well.

Reviewer 2: Should we link to pricing principles or some strategy bit of handbook here?

Author: Pricing principles need updating atm, so left that out for now.

> We think this is better for everyone than trying to squeeze you for every cent you have. You have a great experience, and we'll enjoy better retention and word of mouth for doing the right thing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We think this is better than trying to squeeze you for every cent you have. You have a great experience and we'll enjoy better retention and word of mouth for doing the right thing.
```

> ## FAQ
>
> #### Will my bill go up if I continue to use person profiles?
>
> No. Events with person profiles enabled cost the same as our old pricing. You'll see a new line item on your invoice, but what you pay won't change if you send person profiles on every event. 
>
> #### Why aren't you making the events with person profiles cheaper?
>
> Because events with person profiles cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Not sending person information for certain events, however, saves us money, so we're passing that on.
>
> This aligns our interests with our customers, and means we can make a positive margin on all events ingested (beyond our free tier), so it is sustainable but not greedy!
>
> We're also working on reducing costs for events with person profiles enabled. When we do, we'll pass this saving on, too.
>
> #### I've got a question you haven't answered...
>

> > You can leave a comment on this post, or ask a question in [our community forum](/questions).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> First, check out our [person](/docs/data/persons) and [person properties](/docs/product-analytics/person-properties) docs. If those don't answer your question, you can leave a comment on this post, or ask a question in [our community forum](/questions).
```

---
date: 2024-06-24
title: 'PostHog is now up to 80% cheaper'
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_is_the_cheapest_e77c4ea4a5.jpg
author:
  - james-hawkins
tags:
  - PostHog news
---
import {ProductScreenshot} from 'components/ProductScreenshot'

export const Pricing = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_ba910c9535.jpg"
export const PricingDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_dark_6b11387d6c.jpg"
export const PricingComparison = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_f0c9e11f40.jpg"
export const PricingComparisonDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_dark_ecf7d726c0.jpg"

> ## TL;DR

Reviewer 3: This section doesn't mention the downsides, which is a pretty important caveat.

Author: We have the draw the line somewhere. This section is already longer than I'd like. It's explained in the article clearly and I think this is enough.

> * You can now use PostHog's product and web analytics for up to 80% less, making us cheaper than any popular competitive product.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can now use our product and web analytics tools for up to 80% less, making us the most cost effective solution on the market.
```

Talking about ourselves in third person and caveating competitors as referring to popularity weakens this imho

Author: Agree on 1, but not 100% on 2.

I think @jamesefhawkins used "cheaper" deliberately because that's what we are. "cost effective solution" feels a bit indirect and tonally wrong for us. 

If we were determined not to say "cheaper", I'd probably go for something like "the better value than any popular competitive product."

* This is possible because we've introduced a new event processing option that enables you to capture events without person data, what we call _person profiles_. 

* Events _without_ person profiles cost less for us to ingest and query. We're passing this saving onto you by introducing cheaper base event pricing and a new person profiles event option, which is charged separately.

* Events with person profiles enabled cost the same as our old event pricing. Existing customers will see a new line item labeled "Person profiles" on their invoice, but pricing has not gone up.

* You decide when you capture person profile on an event. By default, events are captured with person profiles, but you can change this with a configuration option.

> ## How much cheaper are the new base events?

Author: ```suggestion
## How much can I save?
```

Shorter and easier to pass. Puts emphasis on savings.

> At lower volumes, our new event pricing is 80% cheaper than before. This makes us better value than any popular (>$10M in revenue) product analytics tool. 

Author: This is from James' OG draft, but I assume this is to stop people saying "XYZ tool barely anyone uses" is cheaper – e.g. the User Maven's and June's of the world.

In real terms this means:

1. Someone sending us 10 million events per month would **save $9,060 a year** if they disabled person profiles for all events.

2. They would still **save $4,404 a year** if they used person profiles on 50% of their events.  

We expect people to use a combination of events with and without person profiles, which you can see visualized below.

<br />

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={Pricing} 
  imageDark={PricingDark} 
  alt="New PostHog pricing" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

Below you can see how our new pricing compares to Mixpanel's up to 20 million events – the limit of its "transparent" pricing. 

<ProductScreenshot
  imageLight={PricingComparison} 
  imageDark={PricingComparisonDark} 
  alt="New PostHog pricing compared to Mixpanel" 
  classes="rounded"
/>

> The table below is a side-by-side comparison of our new base event pricing, and pricing for events with person profiles enabled. The math is:
> 
> `New base events + person profiles = Our previous per event pricing`

Author: ```suggestion
The table below is a side-by-side comparison of our new base event pricing, and pricing for events with person profiles enabled. The math is: New base events + person profiles = Our previous per event pricing.
```

| **Monthly events** | **New base event price** | **Base events + person profiles** | **Percentage diff.** |
|--------------------|--------------------------|-----------------------------------|----------------|
| **Up to 1m**       | Free                     | Free                              | -              |
| **1-2m**           | $0.0000500 / event       | $0.0002480 / event                | -80%           |
| **2-15m**          | $0.0000343 / event       | $0.0001040 / event                | -67%           |
| **15-50m**         | $0.0000295 / event       | $0.0000655 / event                | -55%           |
| **50-100m**        | $0.0000218 / event       | $0.0000364 / event                | -40%           |

> | **100-250**        | $0.0000150 / event       | $0.0000187 / event                | -20%           |

Author: ```suggestion
| **100-250m**        | $0.0000150 / event       | $0.0000187 / event                | -20%           |
```

> | **100-250m**        | $0.0000150 / event       | $0.0000187 / event                | -20%           |

Author: ```suggestion
| **100-250m**       | $0.0000150 / event      | $0.0000187 / event               | -20%           |
```

| **∞**              | $0.0000090 / event       | $0.0000100 / event                | -10%           |

## When should I use the new option?

> We use it for events where we're only interested in aggregate data, such as for logged-out users on our website.

Author: Take a second pass at this, but the point was to give an example and show we're dogfooding it.

> We use it for events where we're only interested in aggregate data, such as for logged-out users on our website.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, I think we definitely want to get that in -- maybe as a recommendation. Maybe something like:

``` suggestion
While you can choose to always or never collect person profiles, we expect most teams to collect them conditionally based on when a user is identified. Internally, for example, we use person profiles for logged-in users where we want to collect all the data we can and skip person data for unidentified users where aggregate data is sufficient. 
```

> We use it for events where we're only interested in aggregate data, such as for logged-out users on our website.

Author: This is way too wordy. Will take a second pass at this in a bit.

Some examples of this include:

- You want to track your marketing website and your product, but you don't need detailed information about visitors to your marketing website.
- You're willing to lose some functionality for lower bills.
- You want to track API or server events, especially at high volumes. 
- You run a large e-commerce or content website with millions of users.
- You're not tracking a high-volume event because it would be prohibitively expensive.
- You want to use [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) to track events, but have turned it off to save money.

## How do I start using it?

For most people, it only requires a simple config change to include `process_persons: "identified_only"` in the initialization of your JavaScript Web SDK or snippet.

> This will track anonymous traffic without person profiles, and start collecting person information any time an identifying action is taken (i.e. using `identify()`, `group()`, setting person properties with `$set`, etc).

Author: ```suggestion
This will track anonymous traffic without person profiles, and start collecting person data any time an identifying action is taken (i.e. using `identify()`, `group()`, setting person properties with `$set`, etc).
```

You can get more details on this and other use cases, like server-side events, in our [persons documentation](/docs/data/persons).

## What's the downside?

> When sending events without person information, you cannot:

Author: ```suggestion
When sending events without person data, you cannot:
```

- Filter on persons (e.g. an individual user)
- Create cohorts filtered on person properties (e.g. paying vs non-paying users)
- Target by person properties for feature flags, A/B tests, and surveys.
- Receive initial UTM values for tracking marketing campaign performance (only the most recent).
- View a person’s profile in the app, or query the persons table in our SQL insights.
- Use [groups functionality](/docs/product-analytics/group-analytics) on standard events (without person profiles).

If you need the above functionality for all your traffic, you don't need to change anything. Continue to send person information with your events.

Person profiles are not all-or-nothing. You can use them on any traffic where you need more detailed information, and skip them when you don't need that detail. Read more about this in our [persons documentation](/docs/data/persons).

> ## Why are we doing this?

Reviewer 3: I feel like this should be higher, or incorporated elsewhere. Currently the flow of sections feels hard to follow.

- Summary
- How much cheaper are new base events? (What's changed)
- When should I use the new option? (Qualifier)
- How do I start using it? (CTA)
- What's the downside? (Caveat)
- Why are we doing this? (Why it's changed)
- FAQ

So we start with what's changed, then qualify it, then give a CTA, then give some caveats, then explain why we've done it.  That feels muddled.

I think it's a clearer story if we start with what's changed and why, then cover the benefits and caveats, then qualify it and give a CTA. 

I feel it's especially important that we qualify the downsides _before_ we tell people how to get started with it.

Author: Just so it's 100% clear, what order do you think they should be in?

Reviewer 3: The part I feel most strongly about is that we end with 'How do I start using this?' and cover the downsides before that. Beyond that, I personally feel that 'Why we're doing this' could be expressed elsewhere but I'd defer to you. 

If I was writing the headings would be something like:

- What's changed and why
- Who is this for/why you should use it
- What's the downside?
- How do I get started?

Author: Will switch up the order.

The short answer? Because we can.

The slightly longer answer? Because it's the right thing to do for both our users and our business.

Most of our competitors are inefficient. They employ huge [outbound sales teams](/founders/negotiate-software-better) to grow revenue. Their salaries and commissions for closing deals are passed onto their customers through higher prices.

In contrast, we're 100% inbound, we grow mostly through word of mouth, and we charge based on actual usage. 

> We don't believe in loss-leaders, so we make a modest positive margin on each event sold, but what we charge is directly connected to what it costs us, not what we think we get away with charging.

Author: ```suggestion
We don't believe in loss leaders, so we make a modest positive margin on each event sold, but what we charge is directly connected to what it costs us, not what we think we get away with charging.
```

We grow our revenue through helping you grow, and onboarding you onto other tools, like session replay, feature flags, and surveys as well.

We think this is better than trying to squeeze you for every cent you have. You have a great experience and we'll enjoy better retention and word of mouth for doing the right thing.

> > ## FAQ

Author: TO DO: Add explanation for why person profiles are enabled by default. @raquelmsmith would you mind having a got at this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> ## FAQ

#### Why are person profiles collected if I don't set the config?

For backwards compatibility. We couldn't alter existing customer configs in case this change would mess up how they are tracking things. However, we have plans to change this default in the future - but we didn't want to delay getting these cost saving out until we had that working. For now, all our documented snippets include the `identified_only` config so it's abundantly clear for new and existing users how to set it up.

```

>
> #### Will my bill go up if I continue to use person profiles?
>
> No. Events with person profiles enabled cost the same as our old pricing. You'll see a new line item on your invoice, but what you pay won't change if you send person profiles on every event. 
>
> #### Why aren't you making the events with person profiles cheaper?
>

> > Because events with person profiles cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Not sending person information for certain events, however, saves us money, so we're passing that on.

Author: ```suggestion
> Because events with person profiles cost a lot more for us to ingest and query. Not sending person data for certain events, however, saves us money, so we're passing that on.
```

---
date: 2024-06-24
title: 'PostHog is now up to 80% cheaper'
featuredImage: >-
  https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_is_the_cheapest_e77c4ea4a5.jpg
author:
  - james-hawkins
tags:
  - PostHog news
---
import {ProductScreenshot} from 'components/ProductScreenshot'

export const Pricing = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_ba910c9535.jpg"
export const PricingDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_dark_6b11387d6c.jpg"
export const PricingComparison = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_f0c9e11f40.jpg"
export const PricingComparisonDark = "https://res.cloudinary.com/dmukukwp6/image/upload/posthog_pricing_comparison_dark_ecf7d726c0.jpg"

## TL;DR

* You can now use our product and web analytics for up to 80% less, making us cheaper than any popular competitive product.

* This is possible because we've introduced a new event processing option that enables you to capture events without person data. 

> * Events without person data are cheaper for us to ingest and query. We're passing this saving onto you by introducing cheaper base event pricing and a new 'person profiles' event option, which is charged separately.

Author: @joethreepwood Changed the wording here to avoid the issue you highlighted.

* Events with person profiles enabled cost the same as our old event pricing – i.e. base events + person profiles = our previous per event pricing. If you're an existing customer, you'll see a new 'person profiles' line item on your invoice, but your pricing has not increased.

> * By default, events are captured with person profiles, but you can change this with a simple [configuration option](#how-do-i-start-using-it) whenever you like.

Author: @joethreepwood Added jump link to config section of this page as I'd rather people not leave the page at this stage.

| **50-100m**        | $0.0000218 / event       | $0.0000364 / event                | -40%           |
| **100-250m**       | $0.0000150 / event      | $0.0000187 / event               | -20%           |
| **∞**              | $0.0000090 / event       | $0.0000100 / event                | -10%           |

## Who is this for?

Tracking events without person data is useful if:

- You want to track your marketing website and your product, but you don't need detailed information about visitors to your marketing website.
- You're willing to [lose some functionality](#whats-the-downside) for lower bills.
- You want to track API or server events, especially at high volumes. 
- You run a large e-commerce or content website with millions of users.
- You're not tracking a high-volume event because it would be prohibitively expensive.
- You want to use [autocapture](/docs/product-analytics/autocapture) to track events, but have turned it off to save money.

We recommend you enable person profiles for logged-in users of your product and website, but disable them for unidentified users where aggregate data is sufficient. 

> This is how we've configured our own product and website tracking.

Author: @raquelmsmith are you ok with us saying this?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most people, we recommend using the `identified_only` [configuration option](#how-do-i-start-using-it) for person profiles. This automatically captures person profiles for logged-in users of your product and website, but doesn't capture them for unidentified users where aggregate data is sufficient. 

This is how we've configured our own product and website tracking.
```
